difference preload and includes

what do you mean by sanitizing params

render and redirect

what is after save and afte commit

perform and perform_async? in sidekiq

what is let and let! and context and it in rspec

uniq and distict

update and update attribute method

what do you mean by strict and conditional validations?
ptach and put

serializers

N+1 

STI

self_join_association

it is possible to change the convention of namijjg a table in rails? if yes how will you do this? please explain.

how we can run specific migration

what are the Relational and  conditional callbacks in ActiveRecord?Explain them.

what are transactional callback?Explain them

what do you mean by member and collection

what do you know about namespace and scoped routing in rails

what is scope in query?

webpacker and  sprockets.

explain all active record query

what are validations in rails? At what momemts of an objects's lifecycle validations are checked?

what is single table inheritence

what is the difference between class methods and scopes? Are they similar?

custom validations

partial in rails

what do delegates in rails Explain usage of delegates.

helper in rails 

actiona mailers

what do you mean by concern in rails? explain the way of using a concern?

what is the differences between a sidekiq workder and rails Activejob?

what is rake task

ActiveStorage

how do you pass default arguments to a controller action where you instantiate a new model object?

what do you mean by api versioning in rails?Explain when there is a need to change the version of an API?

difference between before_save  before_create and before_update?

default scope in rails

how to use array type in any any table in rails?

possible to replace schema.rb

how do you organize your controller how to make thin

difference between active record and activemodel 

dependent::destory dependent::delete_all?

what is yelid in ruby? what happens if you call the method, which includes yield without passing a block?

what is the difference s between hash and HashWithdifferentAccess?

in ruby how many ways to invoke a method?illustrate with example?

what do you by schema versioning in rails? When does it change?

what do mean by reversible migrations?

what is shallow nesting routes?

what is inject method in ruby?

equal and eql?

what is difference between iterators and loops in ruby?

what are accessor methods in ruby?
list and explain accessor methods.

what are class level and module level attributes?

singleton class in ruby?

enum  and array?

what do you think it the right time to define a helper method inside c acontroller in rails?

difference between itrators and loops in ruby?

it is possible to send emails without renderign a template in rails? if yes how will you do this?

deliver now deliver later?

what are modules in ruby?How can you differentiate class and instance methods in module?

what happend that if you not provide the column type in remove_column migration?

what happend  if you rollback a change_column migration within the change method?
